Yeah, actually today I'm going
to introduce two movies.
One of them is the matrix.
You already know this movie.
Also, I'm going to introduce
another movie for your weekend. So.
Yes.
Correct, I mean there is a huge
philosophy behind this movie,
but it's still in terms
of the cinematography.
And I mean moving making.
That's one of the brilliant movies.
In the history of cinema.
Yes, miss I'm I'm going to explain
more details about the labs and lab
time and etc. Yes, I'm going today.
I'm going to fully cover those topics.
No worries.
Because I feel like he would have
to have his memory erased. Uh.
Have you watched the movie
Eternal Spotless? Ah.
Sunshine, Eternal spot sunshine.
Yes I forgot. It turned off.
Spotless something mind I.
Yes, internal shaft is spotless
mind yet the odds are brilliant
movie and that's the story of how to
manipulate or how to play with the
memory cells in a human individual.
Which is I mean right at the
time that they made the movie.
It was theory, but currently they use it
as a practical approach to treat some.
I mean some patients.
Those that I have experienced
trauma in the war so they tried
to erase those part of the memory.
So this is the answer to.
Uh. At the.
Ah, yes, Luca, that use your family.
Erasing the memory.
I mean, currently it is possible.
Yes, I watched an ad,
but it's very confusing for me.
I watched once,
but I have to watch it and in multiple
times because Christopher Nolan's movie
are all playing in the timeline so.
It's very hard to understand. Uh,
yeah, it's another brilliant movie by Nolan.
Also, no line is one of my I mean.
Ah. Best director. The Memento,
have you seen them The Momento?
Actually, I used that movie in my computer
architecture course when I was trying
to explain how to build memory cell.
Yeah, so OK, let's start. So.
Wake up everybody so we have 96 students.
Uh, so.
On Monday, uh, we, uh,
explained the story of the
birth of an operating system,
the very first one I Unix.
So I'm going to very quickly go over the
slides on Monday very quickly and then.
Will continue with these slides for today.
So.
So basically we started at a problems.
The birth of computer science.
We try to provide some solutions to the
problems among the immediate problems
with distance measuring the distance,
height and then we said that the easy
part of the computer science at the main
concern of the computer science is how
to find this solution to the problems.
And if there is a solution with start writing
or taking some steps to reach the solution,
we call these steps programs.
Any program has two main parts,
algorithm and data.
Before the invention, or, uh, I mean the.
Invention of the computer systems
are there were a lot of programs,
but these steps were taken by
the human individuals manually.
So we have Euclid.
Uh, I mean great GCD algorithm
or linear equation algorithm by
a famous mathematician.
Euclid has me,
Archimedes and then we said that, uh,
we tried to give these steps to add
machine to do for us because it's faster and.
Needs less time.
So.
And these are the very early I mean
from the very early machines that helps
human individual to reach the solution.
Uh, for instance we have Abacus.
We have analog computing.
Up until today's digital computers.
And this is one of the famous
computers that helped to decipher the
codes by Germans in World War Two.
As you can see, it's a huge computer
system operated by some human individuals.
One thing I get I have to show you
is that we talked about OP code,
so you would answer you would ask me what?
What are the opcodes in these systems?
Actually, these are the I mean,
the papers roll of papers including
some holes somewhere is whole
summer is not hold and etc.
So basically representing zero and ones.
So these are the string.
Of opcodes given to the
machine to be operated.
So, uh, actually the programs are.
These are the programs in opcodes
and then given to the machine.
He said that we have three main dimension,
computer science and discourse
belongs to the third dimension,
dealing with hardware or computer.
We set that up.
This early architecture for the hardware
computer system was proposed by fundament.
Basically it's very simple architecture.
It has a memory to store the data and also
the instruction or opcode of our program.
And there's another unit processor.
The main duty of processes just
execute the instruction by fetching
those instructions from memory and
returning the result back to the memory.
And this communication happens at a
communication channel called bus.
We said that what is the properties
of one fun human architecture and this
is the current model implementation
of manufactured a hardware,
so it has different parts.
The CPU party you have to attach
the CPU part here.
You may buy a CPU from AMD company
or from Intel Company or from Mac.
These are the module of the memory.
For instance you can go and buy.
A 2 gigabyte of memory and install
it in these measures.
Power plug and coil devices attached.
These are the interface for attaching
the IoT devices such as keyboard,
keyboard and a hard disk drive USB.
The main focus of this course,
uh or the main part of UH?
A system that we are going to do this,
I mean deal with is the processor
we said that processor are in two
main categories or risk type of
processor is small instruction set
but very highly fast and optimized.
SSD parlor and type of processor.
These are general purpose processors.
They are able to multi.
I mean execute a wide range of opcodes
but very slow because they are not
optimized specifically for a set of opcodes.
The modern processors are based on
these two architectures, X86 or 64.
In computer architecture one and one and two.
You learn more about what are these numbers.
But for us,
these are just processors that
execute the opcodes.
We said that how the programs
are going to be
executed by processor.
All the problem should be in opcodes.
A sequence of binary numbers,
because that's the only language that
the pulse processor can understand.
And then we said that if you want
to write a very simple program by
writing a sequence of opcodes,
it becomes huge number of lines.
For instance,
simply about 14,000 lines of up code.
You have to write just to
simply print out hello World.
He said it's not readable and
also it's hard to debug.
So we introduce assembly language.
It's much more close to natural language
and the number of lines is hugely reduced,
so from 14K lines of opcode it becomes 14.
Again, we don't expect the processor
to execute the assembly lines because
machine doesn't understand assembly.
We have to convert the assembly
lines to opcodes.
This is done by assembler.
And then, uh,
we said that these are two famous computer
scientists and switching and cannot stamps.
And who was among the first wrote
programs in assembly language
is for mainframe for computers?
There were some problems happen when right?
I mean running program for instance.
We have limited amount of memory
but we have large programs.
So how can we fit or run the large
program inside the limited memory?
There is a solution called paging.
If you have multiple programs
and just one single computer,
how can we share this single
computer with multiple programs?
This is called the scheduling.
And we said that there should be
another program written in assembly
language and converted to opcodes.
And put it in the memory to manage
these are I mean problems for other
programs to help other programs
to run smoothly on a computer.
We called this specific program
operating system,
so although it has system but
it's not a hardware,
it's a program software.
But it helps to run other
programs running smoothly,
so it's a program for other programs.
This type of programs is
called system level programs.
Basically they are not going to
solve a problem in the real world.
They are trying to help other programs.
So this is the architecture,
so the operating system sits
on top of the machine,
helps other programs.
The first operating system proposed by
Dennis Ritchie and Kashtam firm called Unix,
written in assembly,
but after a while it gets larger and
larger and larger even in assembly
lines it becomes huge amount,
huge amount of lines.
The management of these
operating it becomes hard,
so they introduce a new language
originally just for Unix.
Uh, just for system level programming,
just to write an operating system.
And then, uh,
they rewritten the Unix in C language.
When we rise up programming C language,
we have to give it to the compiler.
The compiler transfer the sea lines
into assembly lines and we give
it to assembler and the assembler.
Transfer the assembly lines to upgrade.
As you can see,
it's still all the programs.
Any type of program,
even if the even the operating
system should become opcode in
order to be executed by processor.
And you see that C program
actually helps a lot.
Very few amount of lines
and much more readable.
You can simply debug is C program,
even if you give this simple program
to a person that has no idea about
computer science understands what's
the main purpose of this program.
And this is the I mean pipeline.
You're right program in C language.
You give it to compiler,
make it assembly and then later
I'll show you how this happens.
For a real program in Unix based system.
Actually this is the first sign.
First lab, I think yeah,
and then you give the assembly
lines assembler, make it up code.
If you have new language,
the only thing you have to do
is just build a new compiler.
Everything else remains the same,
but if you change your machine
because the opcode of different
machines are different,
so you have to provide a new
assembler for your compiler.
For instance,
if you already have the assembler for
Intel processor and you want to run
your program in another processor,
for instance from the Apple Company,
you have to ask for a new assembler
on Mac processor or an Apple processor
Apple processors to translate the
assembly lines of your program
to the opcode of that processor.
So this is an important step and so
you need a new assembler for new machine.
And then gradually their released
the C programming language and ask
other programmers to write their
application level programs in C.
So everything becomes this
programming C language.
And this is the final architecture.
And we said that this the title
of discourse system programming
is not a system level programming.
So it doesn't have this part.
As a result,
we are not going to write a new
operating system. By the C language.
Also,
we are not going to add any new feature
to the existing operating system
by writing system level program.
So we are not going to do this.
However,
we are still in the application
level program.
We write some programs that solve
some real problems on top of
the operating system.
But what's the benefit of this course?
The benefit of this course is that
if we know how an operating system
helps to program our program,
we can employ more features from
the operating system and we'll
see what are these features.
The knowledge that you obtained from
this course and should help you to
write advanced programs compared to
a person that doesn't know how an
operating system execute the program.
Specifically,
this is the focus of this course.
A Unix at all the operating
systems that are based on Unix.
And you may ask why I need this knowledge.
I was as I said, because you then
manipulate and you are able to
manipulate the operating system,
you are able to sometimes bypass
the operating system you are.
You're able to do something that
a person that doesn't know how an
operating system healthy program.
Uh, actually your program is much
more faster or much more efficient.
And now. We are going to start
the next part of the UM. Course,
which was about the logistics.
Any questions so far?
Guys, I told you that if there's no question,
it means that there's a problem somewhere.
Wake up, so let me back to the slides.
But just to make sure that
everybody has the focus,
this slide give me some feedback.
I mean send me some images at least.
Oh, thank you, Ivan. Thank you Zachary.
Night time Matthew Dryden
Sofie Lucas Michael.
Nicholas hi nice to meet you.
Nicola Nicolas. Make sure.
OK, praise seems everybody has the focus.
Now this is the important part
from this student POV. So wake up.
So. Now I'm going to discuss what
is the logistic of the course.
Uh, in this course we have two
main parts in terms of the your
delivery to pass the course.
The name for the part about the exams.
We have a midterm exam right
after the reading week,
the first Monday after the reading week.
Also, we have a final exam.
Both have 30%. So you see,
compared to the other parts of the course,
they have just very small portion
of the evaluation.
Uh, these are going to be take home exams,
so basically I uploaded the
exam papers and you go home.
You download the exam papers
within a limited time,
for instance two or three
hours you upload your answers.
And, uh, yeah,
this is pretty much the example.
I mean the exams that you have to.
Take, uh,
the other part is the your
participation within the semester
we have lab assignments or labs.
We have nine different labs up in total 30%.
So each one becomes 0.
Is 13.3 something a present
of the whole evaluation?
So these are our programming assignments.
You have to write programs in C
on top of a Unix like unit specs,
operating system.
I'll explain more about what labs looks like.
And also you have another type of
assignments called Lex LLC or Legs.
Basically this is the abbreviation
for lecture assignment.
These are the problem solving
assignments you have to answer
these questions by writing in
this piece of paper or strategies
are problem solving problems.
I mean assignments.
It has less portion of the evaluation all
show you an example for the next week.
And then there is another part.
5% bonus point basically,
uh,
your participation in this discussion
board in the blackboard I'll show you
where you can find this discussion
board and how you can participate.
In total you're gonna have 100.
UH5, uh, I mean. As your final mark.
So. Any question?
Ah, ask before Unix Assembly
language was on memory no, no.
As I said, I mean because
memory only contains opcodes.
Assembly language is not.
Uh, is is just a language.
The Assembler, Assembler Assembly is a
program that does the translation correct.
The assembler should be in memory
to do the translation for us.
Also, the assembler is written.
In what language the assembler actually
is should be in any way should become
awkward to be to do anything on the memory,
so assembler is also should be
in opcode to do the translation.
The compiler compiler is also
another program should be executed,
so again compiler is also should
be in awkward.
So. We have Nicolas ask what style
of maternal final can we expect when
we become closer to the exam period.
I'll post some examples and
sample questions and you'll see.
Also, I upload a kind of fake or I
mean mock exam so you can see what
it looks like before the actual exam.
Uh Nicholas, you already had the course
with me, so this is very similar to
the computer architecture course. So.
Yes, Matthew, yes exactly.
It's very similar to
come to architecture one.
The exams are just based on the
question in the lecture assignment
and there would be some question
about the programming as well. Uh.
Yes, I am going to go through the
deadline that setting details.
Yeah, it's off. Do we need to download?
I'll explain it, but how about?
I'll explain in the manual I'll
I'll show you one of the manner
for the labs in the manual.
It explains what are the
softwares that you need, yeah.
So now I'm going to just show you
different parts of the course.
Uh, for instance, where you can find
me where you can find the labs and etc.
So let me. Uh, share the.
My screen so.
Basically, if you go to the blackboard and
you click on the app for system programming.
So you already know how to do that
because you are in the class right now
in the left side you see a menu items.
These are in different sections and
the first section is just about,
uh, announcements.
Whatever happens in the course,
I'm going to put an announcement and
you see what's going on. Home page,
which is basically this is the banner of
our course and this is a famous artist.
You can go to this link and figure out
more about this artist and this statue.
And basically it's called.
I mean it's in French,
great challenge and this is the good
challenge of you taking this course with me.
Uh, in the weekly assigned weekly
schedule part, if you click I'm
sure that you already did that.
Uh, we have two images.
The first image is our weekly program.
You, as a student,
me as the instructor you can see that
we have a lectures in the Monday and
Wednesday morning from 10:00 to 11:20.
Right after the,
uh lectures,
we have the office hour for one hour.
You can come to the office and ask
anything related to the course.
I'll show you how can you come
to the office virtual office.
Also we have the labs we have online labs.
Other Mondays are bialla one of our GS.
His PhD student also on Wednesday
at the labs at these are the
section of the lab Lab 5211 fifty
four by Moeed on Wednesday.
We have another lab on Tuesday.
This is interchanged between
the Allah and Maui.
These are all online labs.
You have to go to the
blackboard and attend the lab.
We have also on Campus Labs,
a instructor is Yogeshwar his master
student and this is the lab lab room number.
Every hall 3119.
So those that registered in Lab 56 and
57 should be on campus in order to
benefit from the help of the lab instructor.
So about the deadlines?
Uh,
we have different deadlines and
different timelines are on Monday.
I mean the first day of the week on
4:00 AM in the morning you are going to
expect the manuals for this assignments.
You have two types of manuals or
one for the programming assignments.
The labs and also you have one manual
for the lecture assignments or legs.
These are assignments are numbered or
have an ID based on the number of week.
Uh, currently we are in the first week.
There is no assignment,
but the assignment gonna start
in the next week.
So second week all the lab
as a starting in next week.
So the first lab and lectures that
you have is called Lab 02 and leg 02.
And you'll see those manuals at
4:00 AM after you see these manuals,
you have one week,
a more than one week actually to do
this assignment and submit the answers
up until the next Wednesday.
So we have one week to do the assignments
and then submit it on the next Wednesday.
The deadline for submission is 4:00 AM.
We don't accept late submission.
I'll explain more about these, I mean.
Issues about the submissions,
but the Wednesday 4:00 AM is the deadline
hard deadline for your submission,
either programming assignments, the labs,
or the problem solving assignments the legs.
Also, right after your
submission next Monday,
you are going to receive your
mark for these submissions.
So on Mondays you have the marks for your
previous submissions and also you'll see
the manners for your new sub assignments.
So this is the 14 weeks 15 weeks
unfolded so we are in the first week.
There is no assignment.
Uh, from next week you see
the manuals for Lab 02 LX 02.
You have one week to submit
your answer on next Wednesday.
And then on the same on the
same week on Monday you see the
manners for the new assignments.
For the third week.
And right next week,
on the 4th week you will have them marks
for your lab 02 and leg 02 submission.
Also you will see a new assignment for
the 4th week and also you have to submit
your answers for the third week on Wednesday.
So you see there is an overlap between
release of a new assignment and
submission of the previous assignments.
So in total we are going to
have nine submissions,
nine labs 9A lecture assignments.
We don't have any assignment
for the reading week.
We don't have any assignment for the last
week and also one week before the last week.
So these coloring helps you to figure out
what are these assignments or the green one,
the first for the second
week the all I mean the.
Uh, this is orange.
The orange,
I mean yellow one for the third week and
then the orange one for the 4th weekend,
etc.
Oh yes, uh, this red one.
Dimitar is the first
Monday after the reading.
So on Monday morning
after the reading week,
we're gonna have the meter.
A facial, as there is no lab 50.
The reason is that the number of the labs
are based on the number of the week,
so the lab for the week the
second week is called Lab two.
So for the 5th week,
which is the reading week,
there is no assignment so there is no.
I mean lab 05. That's the reason.
So the number of labs are based on
the number of weeks that you have
to do the assignment for that week.
If you need to, I mean, zoom in.
There's an Excel file.
Here you can open the Excel file and I
mean see these images in more details.
One thing is that for instance,
the lab 04 and the lecture 04,
because there is no I mean
assignment for the reading week.
You have two weeks period
to submit the answer.
So for the lab 04,
that's the only lab that you
have two weeks to submit.
Everything clear.
And a question awesome. So yeah,
I mean if you keep track of this schedule,
hopefully you don't miss any deadlines and,
uh. Yeah, this is the idea.
And also if you miss one or two labs,
it's not a huge problem.
So do not quit.
Continue with the submissions.
I'll explain more about what what is the
I mean, what a lab or lecture looks like.
I'll I'll show you an example for next week.
And the second menu items.
The second part of the menu
items is about the lectures and
anything related to the lecture,
so the first one is the learning outcome.
Basically it's a PDF file.
It's approved by the University of Windsor.
Let me open it.
So in this document,
basically you can read it in detail,
but in summary it says that if a
student successfully passed the course,
he is able to to what?
In summary, is student passengers.
Schools is able to know what is the main
functionality of an operating system,
specifically Unix.
And how to exploit or use these up?
I mean functionality for the
benefit of better programming.
So we are not going just to know
what is Unix and a total we are
going to use these features
of the Unix in our C programs.
So when we write a program in
C after passing this course,
it should be much more advanced and
much more efficient compared to a
person that doesn't know anything
about units. So that's the summary.
You can read more in detail.
And then the next part is the
syllabus or outline.
This is the contract between me and you.
So this is a very detailed document.
You can see my picture my email
This is the my office hour that I
showed you right after the lectures.
You can come to the office.
I'll show you how.
These are the name of the GS and
the timing of the labs and etc.
And, uh, again,
this is summary of the learning outcome,
but the important part is this.
What is the course? I mean textbook?
This is the course textbook, our reference.
It's in much in very detail,
explained the Unix.
If you need to read this book,
you can go to the library or professor
and and either rent it or buy it.
Also, you can find the PDF file on Internet.
This is the one important part
of the course outline.
The second important part of the
course outline is the grading,
so you have to pass.
50% you have to obtain 50% of the
evaluation parts or I'm going to round
your final mark up to next integer value.
So but you have to have at
least 50 to pass the course.
And and this is the breakdown of the
evaluation I already told you 10%
for the lecture assignment weekly,
30% now assignment midterm and
final each 30 and bonus points
for the discussion board.
And these are the topics
that we are going to
cover within this semester right
now in the ER in the first week.
So we did the meet and greet on Monday.
I'm going to explain more.
I mean today, uh and the I mean
it tripped at the program passes.
I mean on top of the operating system.
Next week we are going to explain what
is a shell and I'm playing with the
shell part of the operating system.
And then from the third week the actual work,
I mean it starts these bolts.
Statements are basically the main feature of
an operating system that we have to cover,
and then you have to use it
in your program language.
These are the main benefits
of the operating system,
process management, memory management.
I'm going to explain a little bit today.
File management or file
system device management.
Communication between the different programs,
and multithreading and network program.
Be careful about these deadlines.
I mean about I mean dropping financial
drop and important dates in this table.
You see the important dates.
And.
Yep, that's it.
So and also you have my email, uh,
anything related to the email.
I mean to this course we can
communicate with me with the
email or attend the office hour.
Uh. I'm trying my best to reply
to your email within one or two
minutes so you can challenge me.
So if you send me an email and
then see whether I can respond
in one or two minutes or no,
but I'll explain what is the
best way to ask your questions
instead of just sending an email.
And the next part is the lectures.
So here you can see for each week of
our lecture you can see one folder.
In each folder I'm going to
put the material for that week.
For instance, for the first week.
Uh, we already had one on Monday.
We had the lecture,
so we have these slides after Monday and
also so this is this slide from Monday.
Also, by clicking on this link you can
see the video recording of at the uh.
Course at the lecture on that day,
for instance, this is for Monday.
Why is not working,
so this is in Microsoft Stream.
Try this.
I mean if you have any problem watching
this recording on Microsoft team,
let us know.
Uh, we try our best to solve the problem.
Put for instance for today
by the end of the day.
I mean tomorrow morning you have
to see another link with a slide
and with the link to the video
recording for today's lecture.
And this happens for each week of our course.
And also we have exams so far,
it's just an empty exams up.
When we get closer to the exam period
I will post some example questions
and some example exam exams so you
can know what an exam looks like.
For now,
it's just empty.
Any question about this part?
Layla asks a William it'll be
during the class, yes, on Monday.
During the class, we have limited time,
so there is no separate our for the exam
on the left one of our lectures on Monday,
right after dealing with we have the exam.
I'll be in the class.
I'll be in the blackboard
Mitchell class for your questions,
but you go ahead with your exam.
You can take it at home
and provide the answer.
Sex **** all.
I think the material that I
provide in the slides and also
in the labs are enough for you.
A textbook is the reference,
so it's not necessary to buy it and honestly,
do not. You can on the Internet,
but huge amount of information about
the operating system and also Unix.
And if even if you need some more
details about some part of the Unix,
you can search on the Internet,
so that's reference textbook. Uh.
Personally, at the time that I was a student,
I didn't buy the book.
So the lecture only after request.
Yes, yes, I'm not going to release the
slides and the before the election,
so you have to attend the lecture?
Uh oh sorry you have to wait up
until the lecture is done.
One thing,
as you can see so far my slides doesn't have.
A lot of content they are based on the
pictures and I mean flowcharts and etc.
So you do not expect my slide as a book.
Or as the I mean notebook.
So Please remember that so do not
just collect my slides and then
await up until one night before
the exam and read my slides to
pass the I mean the exam.
So you have to at least watch the
recording of the lectures because
there are a lot of material that I.
Present and they are not available
on these lines.
Yes, Victor Google is always a fan.
Sometimes is not a good friend,
but a friend indeed. Yes.
So.
Yes yes. May Sam, uh,
for instance sometimes I,
uh, I mean connected unique
space or Linux system and
I'll explain how to do that.
Also, the labs are all about
hands on assignments.
I'll explain more.
So let's continue with the.
With the third part, which is about the labs.
Uh, the first one is the lab syllabus,
so if you go to the lab syllabus
you can see the lab instructions.
We have three lab instructors alla.
And wait for the online labs and
yoga store for the on campus labs.
These are the timings and
the lab section numbers.
We have a Arish Yousef,
an ally as the marker,
so there are marking your submissions,
whether it's a lab or lecture assignment,
but you won't know who mark your submission,
it should be called single blind.
I mean review so they know who you are,
but you don't know who mark your submission
in order to solve any issue about your
submission, you have to first figure out.
In what lab section you register and then
communicate with your lab instructor.
This is very important.
Any problem issue?
Any question about these assignments,
whether it's a lab or lecture.
If you have any problem with the marking,
if you want to review your marking,
etc, you don't know who marker exam.
Or who mark your, uh?
I mean submissions.
You have to find in what lab you register
and communicate with your lab instructor.
Lab instructors are responsible
for your questions and issues.
Markers won't answer your questions
or issues.
Is that clear?
Awesome. So so far we have designed
the labs for the next week.
The first submission of your lab.
Gradually I'm going to complete
the topic of your labs.
In total nine labs,
and these are the number of the weeks.
As I said, each one had three something
percent of the whole evaluation.
In total 30% and important thing is this late
submissions are not going to be accepted.
Until there is a reason or kind of up,
I mean, uh.
Uh, you have to provide evidence
why there is a late submission.
For instance,
there were no power at your place.
There were no,
I mean Internet connection and it
said and you have to provide evidence,
you have to take your snapshot.
You have to, uh, you have to provide
some evidence that something happened
and you did delete submission.
And then if you want us to
accept your late submission,
you have to again, can you get it?
Larry structure,
do not ask me or do not send an email to me.
You have to.
Ask your lab instructor to
accept your list submission.
If the they are not able to
accept your late submission etc,
then communicate with me.
But I'm going to judge based on
my lab instructors judgement so
anything related again to the labs
or the lecture submission you have
to configure lattice structure.
And, uh.
So we have.
Yes, yeah, actually we have
two types of assistance,
GS or graduate students.
That's why they are your instructor and
there are responsible for your submissions.
Teaching assignments are like you.
There are senior undergrad students,
so they know how to mark
your submissions, but yeah.
The labs are because of it's
optional to record the labs,
because sometimes these students attend
the lab and they share their screen
to show the problem on their local
machines and the live instructor is
trying to help the student and it's.
I mean sometimes they shouldn't do
not want to record their screen.
That's why the lab instructor
should ask you that.
Is it possible to record the lab or no?
So it's optional for the lab.
Sometimes we have a recording for lab,
sometimes you don't have,
so do not rely on the.
Setting up the lab.
That's because of the privacy so,
but for the lectures,
all lectures gonna be recorded.
Any other questions?
Offer a discussion board. I'll explain.
No, there's no. I'll explain more.
Uh, so yeah, that's the lab syllabus.
So in order to see more information again,
these are the learning cycle.
This is important part
that I already explained.
If you need a second attempt,
if you submit a wrong file.
And then you need to open a new
attempt because you only have
one attempt on the blackboard.
If you made a mistake and submitted
incorrect file and need another attempt,
you have to communicate
with your lab instructor.
He's able to open a new account for you.
If you need to review your marking.
Again, lattice structure is responsible, etc.
If it's still the problem,
uh remains,
then you have to communicate with me.
So this is the last moment
that you can make it with me
regarding your assignments.
And what are the labs?
So for this part you can see the
manuals for the labs for each week we
are going to have a folder inside each
folder you'll see a manner for the lab.
So because we have to wait until next
Monday to see a release the manual,
it's already done, but you will see
this item in the blackboard on Monday,
which is assignment for the
lab and what is this?
You will see a PDF file.
Explaining the law.
So let me show you an example of a lab.
For next week, most other labs are
following the same instruction.
So here is a sample lab for the
first lab from the second week.
Any lab has a header,
it shows the due date,
which is the next Wednesday.
I mean the Wednesday after next week.
And the release date of the mark at this time
go to the blackboard and check your mark.
If you do not see any mark,
communicate with your lab
instructor and ask for the reason.
All your assignments are going
to be marked by the tears,
and if you mean lose some marks,
they are going to give you a comment.
So for instance, they say that there's a
problem with this part of your assignment.
There's a problem with that.
Part of the problem assignment,
and then you know why did
deduction happened with your mark.
If you do not see any comments,
you have to come give you the
lab instructor and ask why the
deduction happened with your lab.
Go ahead tally.
You can enable your mic and
ask your question.
Are you able to?
Oh, OK. OK, no problem.
OK, so each lab has a I mean first part
explain what the main our purpose of the lab.
For instance, the first lab is
helping you to provide an environment
for the whole rest of the labs.
I mean within the next weeks.
Environment setup how to work with
and provide a unique based system
and start programming on that.
Here I explained that if you want to have
a fresh copy of the Unix on your system,
how can you do that?
Or you can you can connect to the
available systems on the Department
of Computer Science at this
school and use the machines here.
So here I'll explain how to connect
a unique space server at the school
and then how to use from the windows
or from Mac laptop or Mac system
to connect to this server and start
working so you don't need to have a
unique space system on your machine.
You can connect to the machine.
At the school and work with that.
So from Windows based system from Apple
based system or other type of system.
You can use SSH.
I explain what is SSH here and then
how to use the command of SSH to
connect to it Unix based system.
By different tools, SSH or also.
Party or put it different pronunciation.
This is a software that helps you to
connect to the Unix based system.
How does it look like and etc.
This man allegedly explained everything
to connect to a Unix based system or
you can use the Unix on your own computer.
The next part is that starting writing is
Simple C program on your Unix based system.
So what you need a text editor,
a compiler linker?
Write your own program.
I explain how we can do that by the VI
app on the Unix based system writer program.
As much detail as possible to help you,
the best to write a program.
How to compile your program you can see
here and then how to link your program
and then have to run your program.
And the final steps of all the
lab assignments are your task.
You have to do these steps and
then submit it to the blackboard.
Princess for your face, laugh.
You have to write this program on your end.
About connecting to a Unix based
system or on your own Unix system.
And then this is the delivery.
I explained what are the delivery
so you have to submit your program
file C file 70% of the market.
Also you have to submit the runnable
or opcode of your file after the I
mean compiling and assembling and etc.
This is the runnable or op collection
of popular program.
You have to submit it 10% again.
Your program should be compiled
with no error.
Your program should be executed.
On a Unix based system with no error.
Also you have to take a snapshot
of your result.
I mean just take a picture
of your result and
then as a JPEG, PNG or PDF file.
All these files gonna be in
a zip file with this name.
Please be careful about the naming.
If you just randomly put a name,
you are going to lose 10%
percent of your marks.
The naming of the file and the
format of the file is important,
so the image should be PDF, JPEG, PNG.
The your file should be
in C extension and etc.
So do not just simply lose
10% because of just randomly.
I mean select a name for your zip file
and so this you vid gonna be your UN ID.
For instance my human ID is
actually funny so I put I should
submit this as a lab 02 underline.
It's funny that's it.
I already uploaded a.
I will upload the example code so
this is I mean all the programs
that I use in this manual.
Be in this file next to the
manual so you will see two files.
One demand of one the example code.
So basically you can reuse the
sample code for your own code.
So I try my best to help you
as much as possible,
but there are some parts that you have
to do in order to learn the topics.
OK, any questions?
Ahmed asked that, uh oh,
can we use Linux since it is a Unix like
oh basically honestly, I will explain.
I mean next week that there
is no original Unix.
So the original Unix at the time,
1970s, uh, will see that there are
a lot of variation of the Unix.
And currently if you go to the market,
I mean you have to.
I mean try very hard to find
the original Unix.
What you can find is the
variation of the Unix.
Some of them are based on the Unix we
call it Unix based operating systems.
For instance,
even the windows is a Unix based system,
basically they.
Expand the Unix core or kernel and
make it better operating system,
visual, operating system etc.
There are some other operating system that
they follow the same structure of the Unix,
but they are not exactly used.
The core of the Unix,
we call them Unix like operating system.
Next week I'll explain more.
One of them is the Linux.
Linux is not Unix based operating system,
it's a Unix like operating system
because it follows different
kernels of different cores.
But this structure is the same.
For instance all different.
Parts of an E standard operating system.
The Linux has it so you will see no
difference between the Unix like
operating systems such as Linux
or Unix based operating system.
I hope I answered your question on it.
Oh Red Hat Red Hat actually
is a company other company.
Actually it's a commercial implementation of
Linux operating system, which is a unique.
Like operating system, so these are
different commercial version of that.
But you have to pay for that hat.
There are some free version of Unix
like operating systems such as Linux.
Ubuntu is a free software,
I'll explain more.
I mean next week, yeah.
Show this hasn't been uploaded yet, right?
Yes, it's not all bad as I said,
because this is the assignment
for next week on Monday 4:00 AM.
You will see the example code
and also the manner, yeah?
This is because the first
book there is no sign.
Victor Victor asked how much knowledge
we need for the C programming.
You need the requirement for this course is
the C programming course, which is I mean.
After Kathy, let me see what is
the code for their thoughts.
Uh, this is the. This is the requirement.
As long as you know all the topics
of this one, the computer comp 1410
this knowledge is required for us,
but honestly, as long as you can write
a program in C and for instance open
a file store something in a file,
that's enough. I mean I,
I mean declaring some variables and etc.
You can simply catch up with what we
are going to discuss in this course.
And also as I said in the in the.
Panels for the labs.
I put a lot of example so it's it's
a huge help for you to understand.
What are the instruction and such.
Amia AMIA asked that are are we
going to use Unix like or unique
space of any system in this course?
It doesn't matter.
Because both the other type of operating
systems Unix like and unique space.
They because they follow the same
architecture and the same principles as the
as a person that wants to use those features.
It doesn't matter.
All of them provide the same features.
Because as I said, we are not going
to do programming in system levels,
we are still in the application level,
so we are going to use those features.
All these operating systems
provide those features.
So in this code it doesn't matter.
You are using Unix like or.
Unique space operates.
Correct Nicholas Nicholas yes, correct,
this is another operating system free
version of the operating synthetic and
download and install on your computer.
So let's move on to the next topic.
Oh my God, we are losing a lot of time.
Let me go to next part.
OK, so this is the lab.
Also. Where is the labs?
So if you go to the lab room,
you go and you end up with the same area
that you enter the class, but in the.
The bottom of the page you can see
for each online lab there is a link.
Based on the lab section that you registered,
you can go for instance.
This is for next week,
is not started next week 1132.
Also for instance, if your lab is 53,
it's in the afternoon.
Based on the lab section number
and also based on the date,
you can enter one of these virtual
labs and you'll see the lab instructor
there and then you can help them.
We can you can work with the lab instructor.
Oh yes, yes. Be careful you will be.
No idea is the first part of your
uwindsor email, so do not put this
student ID as the file names.
Let me go back to the lab panel again.
So for instance, here I put the you know
ID because you win ID is part of the email
from the Windsor is not a student ID,
so do not make this simple mistake.
Do not put your student ID here
because then you lose 10% of your mark.
So yeah, and then the last,
the next part is the your grade,
so you'll see your March each Monday
and 4:00 AM for the previous submission.
Uh, so there's no assignment yet
so you can see no so far and the
last part is the discussion board,
office and email.
I'm going to first explain the office.
So how to enter the office?
If you click the office you end up
with the same area, but then you
see a link instructor office hour.
Questions today right after the lecture,
you can click on this and then
are you based on the date.
For instance,
today is the 15th of September.
It becomes enabled and you can enter this
and then I'm available there for one hour.
Mondays, Wednesdays,
up for any concern or anything
related to the course.
Even if you have some programming,
I mean issues and etc.
I'm happy to help you.
And the next part of the discussion board.
So if you go to the discussion board you
see different forms in this different.
I mean these are based on the type of
the question that you want to post,
lecture questions,
lab questions, Mr Final anything.
I mean not categorizing it.
In the other forums you can put
it here as an example in the lab.
For instance, Shadow asked that.
I mean, is it possible to install a
fresh copy of Linux on my own computer,
and then if you go here, move it as
a GA actually provide a help to him.
Also Yogeshwar provide another health.
You see if you post your questions
instead of sending an email to me,
post the question here.
First of all, other students can help you.
And also they can share
their experience with you.
Second of all,
the GS are going to help you with
a lot of I mean links and etc.
Second of all, you collect bonus points.
You remember the 5% bonus point you
can obtain bonus points toward your
mark by just posting questions or any
problem or issues in the discussion board.
So do not send them just
simply an email because.
If I answer your question,
it may be the answer to
other students question,
so I prefer to answer your
issue or question here,
as long as there is no privacy involved.
Even if you think that you don't
want to release your name,
you can post anonymous,
uh,
I mean post so you can use anonymity
and then you push your issues here.
Nobody knows who you are and then
you try to answer your issue.
You can like or dislike and
an answer or help.
One thing is that in the forums
you are able to subscribe if
you subscribe to the forum.
Whenever somebody put a post
in the discussion,
but you receive an email and then
you can go and see what is the
problem or what is the issue.
Ah.
Mia asked that how many posts we have
to put in order to give the full 5%.
It depends on the distribution
of the country.
I mean posts.
So at the final day of the course
will see what is the maximum
number of posts by a student and
then based on that we adjust the
participation score for the student.
So you don't know I mean.
Uh, we have to see how much post is,
uh,
we can see on the discussion board
and then distribute the five person
bonus points for this student.
Yeah,
so it's not the area to obtain the 5%,
but it says motivation.
But the main idea is that share
your experience or your knowledge.
Even if you see something interesting,
you can put it here and other
students can benefit from your experience.
And any other questions?
I kinda knew the answer from
visual design. Alright, yes,
the same policy as that course, yeah.
OK, seems any question?
Uh, if you have a.
So let me back in the slides.
So we did the tour of Blackboard.
I explained learning Outcome course outline.
A lab guide or manual.
Also, we have the manual for lectures
or a lab room discussion board.
5% bonus point.
Office this is the office hour and I
showed you how to enter the office.
And this is my information.
This is my email.
If anything is not resolved or
the issue remains with the JS,
I mean with any structures
or etc can make it with me.
Also, I'll be in my office right now.
I'm on my office on campus.
If you are on campus and you need
to see me at, you can drop by.
You cannot attend inside the office,
but I mean just behind the door.
I mean, it's a policy.
So if you have a shield you can
come to the office for 15 minutes.
And yeah,
one thing I have to show you is an
example of the lecture assignments.
So how Electra salmon look like a?
I just wanted to show you the
lecture assignment for next week.
So this is a lecture
assignment for next week, uh?
So you see, again,
there is a deadline for submission,
very similar to the lab submission.
There is a release date.
You see your mark at that date.
Uh, what is the purpose, and, uh,
what should be the name of the file
that you submitted to Blackboard? Again,
please be careful about the naming policy.
Use the number correct number of the lab
and also you mean ID in a single PDF file.
You can take it.
You can answer this question
and a piece of paper.
Take a snapshot,
make it a PDF file and then submit that.
Usually I post about 10:15 questions
about based on your preference.
You can simply select two of the questions.
Sometimes I say I explicitly
tell you what questions.
Sometimes I leave it to you to select two.
You may just choose the two
simplest or easier one to answer,
but the main idea for you,
I mean to have more questions that
you be aware of type of question
that you will see in the exams.
So even if you are not going to
submit a difficult question,
it's still a big.
I mean,
try to find the answer to the
difficult question and make
yourself ready for the exam.
So then you have an idea what type of
question you will see in the exam.
So this is me first,
as the next week lecture assignment
is based on your preference,
just select two question and
and provide answers to those
questions and submit as a PDF file.
Any question?
I'm not sure. I'm not sure me about.
I mean third year course.
Will have to wait. Alex is asked.
Without gate depend on watch quotes.
No no, no uh, basically just two questions.
Whatever question you select doesn't matter.
Uh, each question going to
have 50% of that lecture son.
Sometimes I say just question one and two,
but most of the time I say
based on your preference.
Any other questions?
OK.
So I'm going to close these files.
Oh oh, that's a good question meysam.
That's a very good question, uh?
About the keys, because them keys to the
lab assignment or to the lecture assignment.
Basically, for the lab assignment,
there will be no keys.
So I'm not going to give you the
program that actually is the
answer of the lab assignment.
For the lecture assignments,
it's based on my.
I mean I try my best to provide the keys,
but sometimes there is no key.
Sometimes there is a key and
I'm going to provide keys for
two most answered questions.
So I first ask the lab instructors to
see what are the most answered questions
for the lecture assignment and then I
provide answers to those questions.
So the keys for the assignments
are not mandatory for us,
but I try my best to provide
for the lecture assignments,
but for the lab there is no key.
For the exams,
for the midterm exam final exam,
I will provide the key,
so then you will see what is the correct
answer for the questions in the exams.
Yes, for sure. Yeah,
that's that's the main idea
of the lecture assignments.
So basically you already see
similar questions in the exam.
Exactly babaya on Monday 4:00 AM
for that week you will see the
manuals for the labs and lectures.
OK, so now I'm going to continue.
So these are all about the logistics
and what you have to do in this course.
Now I'm going to. Continue,
we have just about 4-5 minutes, uh.
That's the part that I showed you first.
Now you have to ask me.
I mean, you have to be ready to take a pill,
either the red pill or the blue pill.
So now I'm going to. Play.
So if you ask me if you are
ready to ask me what is Unix?
Or what is Unix kernel or in general,
what is an operating system?
Uh, it depends. On your, uh, I mean. Ah.
Whether you are ready for that or no,
so let me open the link.
And we are going to.
Watch a movie now.
So for those that are sleeping still,
please wake up we are
going to watch a movie.
So. Let's start, so I'm going to yeah.
This is a very interesting scene
from the Matrix movie. Unfortunately,
no one can be told what the matrix is.
You have to see it for yourself.
This is your last chance.
After this there is no turning back.
You take the blue pill.
The story ends.
You wake up in your bed and
believe whatever you want.
You take the red pill,
you stay in Wonderland.
And I show you how deep
the rabbit hole goes.
Remember. All I'm offering
is the truth, nothing.
So. So that's my exact answer to you,
so I'm not going to explain what is Unix.
You have to see it yourself. And. Yes.
Stay in the course or with exactly.
If you take a rat.
Phil, I'm going to have a smile like
Morpheus and I'm going to show you how
deep the rabbit hole rabbit hole is so.
For the remaining 5 minutes I'm going
to for those that took the red pill,
I'm going to start our course.
What is? Unix, basically,
Unix is represented by its core,
which we call it kernel.
So whenever we call about Unix.
Mainly we are talking about
the kernel of the Unix.
The kernel of the Unix has different
opcodes to do or to manage different
tasks for the application level programs.
The first part is File Manager,
sometimes it's called a. Let me.
File system, so let me enable my. Huh?
So sometimes it's called file system,
but in general the quality File
Manager basically dip up codes
for the kernel of the Unix.
In this part it does the provide
the IO access to the devices for
the application level programs.
Another part is called memory manager.
That part of the kernel does, uh, uh.
I mean,
it enables a program large program to be
run by the processor with a limited memory.
So we already said paging.
Virtual memory basically
it provides an illusion.
To a program application level program to
have an unlimited or infinite memory size.
But in in reality the computer
has a limited memory,
but it provides an illusion or
virtual memory space to the program,
application level program and
then it does paging to actually
do the run of the large programs.
Another part is called process manager.
Basically this part of the kernel or Unix
tries to create a process out of the program.
What's the difference?
As long as we have the assembly lines
of your program or see lines of our
program or even opcode of our program
but not in memory in other places.
For instance in USP.
Or in CD or in another part of
the system it is called program.
When it transferred to a memory and is
ready to be executed by the processor or CPU,
then we call it process.
So a program is opcode inside memory,
so that's the main difference.
Why?
Because CPU only access memory?
That's the difference between
the program and process.
Whenever we say a process,
it means that the program with
its opcode inside the memory.
Otherwise it's a program,
either with the C Line assembly lines
or opcode lines in other storages.
Another important part is
the network manager.
Basically it provides programs to
communicate with each other when they
are in different computer systems.
For instance,
using the Internet in a program is
part of the network manager is a
task is a feature that the operating
system provides to programs.
Device Manager actually is a part of
the kernel that manages the devices for.
I mean for programs.
Basically,
if you want to introduce a new device,
for instance a digital pen.
You have to introduce this
device to the kernel of
the Unix. This is done by
registering your device to the
device manager part of the kernel.
And these are the main part of
the Unix or the kernel Phoenix the
whole next weeks we are going to
go inside these managers and see
what are the features and how can
we employ or use those features.
So that's the end of today's story.
So from next week we start.
Deploying the kernel inside the machine
and see what are these different
parts of the kernel of the Unix.
And how they are can be employed
by the application level programs.
So the device manager network manager,
process manager, memory manager,
and File Manager.
These are the main part of any
kernel for any operating systems.
But specifically, we explain about the Unix.
So now I'm done for today's lecture.
So you are going to see the Enricher
recordings and also the slides
by the end of today and I'm going
to be in the office hour.
You know how to enter the office
hour and any question that I
couldn't answer in the lecture.
You can come there and then ask
me or post it in the discussion
board and collect the bonus.
Thank you all for your attendance and.
Have a great day.
You too, Justin. Thank you, Seth.
So Michael, thank you, John Maysam.
Ryan Abby. Arena. Toyota Honda.
Zaharie women thank you all for your
attendance and have a great day.
Thank you meow. D on Victor Monica.
OK, so I'm going to stop the recording.